Peep Show is a British television sitcom starring David Mitchell and Robert Webb, and created by Andrew O'Connor, Jesse Armstrong and Sam Bain. The series was written by Armstrong and Bain, with additional material by Mitchell and Webb, among others. It was broadcast on Channel 4 from 19 September 2003 to 16 December 2015. In 2010, it became the longest-running comedy in Channel 4 history in terms of years on air.
Peep Show follows the lives of Mark Corrigan (Mitchell) and Jeremy "Jez" Usbourne (Webb), dysfunctional best friends who share a flat in Croydon, South London. Mark is a pessimistic, socially awkward loan manager who dreams of being an intellectual, while Jeremy is a perpetually unemployed slacker who lives in Mark's spare room and who dreams of becoming a famous musician. The show uses point of view shots—giving the programme its title—with the thoughts of main characters Mark and Jeremy audible as voice-overs. The contrast between the characters' stated thoughts and feelings and their actual intentions is a source of much of the show's humor.
The show has been described by Bain as portraying "the stubborn persistence of human suffering", and, through the exploration of existentialism and loneliness, as a realistic portrayal of "why ordinary people are evil", while Armstrong said it was "about oddball male friendship, perhaps even 'masculinity'".
Despite never achieving high viewing figures during its original run, Peep Show received consistent critical acclaim and has since become a cult classic. In April 2019, three years after its final episode, the series was named the 13th greatest British sitcom in a poll by Radio Times. It has also been described as one of the best television programmes produced in the 21st century, and one of the best comedy series of all time.

Cast and characters 


David Mitchell as Mark Corrigan, a loan manager at fictional company JLB Credit. Intelligent and hard-working, but also pessimistic and socially awkward, Mark is the owner of the flat in Croydon, which he shares with his friend from university, Jeremy. While he considers himself morally superior to others (especially Jeremy), Mark in reality is often self-serving, petty, and mean-spirited.
Robert Webb as Jeremy "Jez" Usborne, an unemployed aspiring musician and a "work-shy freeloader" who lives in the spare room of Mark's flat. He is selfish, juvenile, and arrogant, while considering himself to be immensely talented and attractive. Although superficially more socially skilled than Mark, his over-confidence and narcissism mean that in practice he is equally socially inept.

Recurring

Olivia Colman as Sophie Hortensia Chapman (series 1–7; guest series 9), a co-worker at JLB, who serves as a love interest for Mark (and occasionally Jeremy) throughout much of the series. She and Mark eventually marry but divorce shortly afterwards, and she later gives birth to his child. As the series goes on, Sophie becomes increasingly unstable, using drugs and drinking to excess.
Matt King as Super Hans, Jeremy's bandmate and friend, who regularly uses recreational drugs. He appears in every series, appearing in 36 out of the 54-episode run. It is revealed in the second episode of the ninth series that his real name is Simon.
Elizabeth Marmur as Toni (series 1–2), Mark and Jeremy's neighbour and romantic interest.
Neil Fitzmaurice as Jeff Heaney (series 1–3, 5–7; guest series 4, 8–9), Mark's coworker and rival at JLB. The two frequently clash over the affections of Sophie, with Jeff's more manly, confident behaviour serving as a foil to Mark's mild-mannered persona.
Paterson Joseph as Alan Johnson (series 2–3, 5–6, 9; guest series 1, 4, 7–8), a senior loan manager at JLB and Mark's boss for much of the series. While presenting himself as suave and hyper-confident, in reality he is reckless and self-deluded. Despite this, Mark constantly desperately seeks his approval.
Rachel Blanchard as Nancy (series 2, 4), a free-spirited, exceptionally beautiful but slightly dysfunctional American woman with whom Jeremy has a relationship.
Sophie Winkleman as Big Suze (series 3, 5–6; guest series 4, 7), Jeremy's ex-girlfriend and frequent romantic interest. She is attractive but naive, and described by Mark as a "mental posho".
Jim Howick as Gerrard Matthew (series 5–7; guest series 4, 8), Mark's sickly coworker and sometimes-friend at JLB, and later his rival for Dobby's affections.
Isy Suttie as Dobby (series 5–8; guest series 9), an IT worker at JLB and a self-confessed misfit, much like Mark, who quickly develops strong feelings for her and the couple have a dysfunctional relationship. She is frequently disappointed by Mark.
Vera Filatova as Elena (series 6), a Russian woman who becomes romantically involved with Jeremy.